
## Political Rebellion ##
"Societies exist under three forms sufficiently distinguishable. 1. Without government, as among our Indians. 2. Under governments wherein the will of every one has a just influence, as is the case in England in a slight degree, and in our states in a great one. 3. Under governments of force: as is the case in all other monarchies and in most of the other republics. To have an idea of the curse of existence under these last, they must be seen. It is a government of wolves over sheep. It is a problem, not clear in my mind, that the 1st. condition is not the best. But I believe it to be inconsistent with any great degree of population. The second state has a great deal of good in it. The mass of mankind under that enjoys a precious degree of liberty and happiness. It has it’s evils too: the principal of which is the turbulence to which it is subject. But weigh this against the oppressions of monarchy, and it becomes nothing. Malo periculosam, libertatem quam quietam servitutem. Even this evil is productive of good. It prevents the degeneracy of government, and nourishes a general attention to the public affairs. I hold it that a little rebellion now and then is a good thing, and as necessary in the political world as storms in the physical.1 Unsuccesful rebellions indeed generally establish the incroachments on the rights of the people which have produced them. An observation of this truth should render honest republican governors so mild in their punishment of rebellions, as not to discourage them too much. It is a medecine necessary for the sound health of government." - Thomas Jefferson to James Madison, Paris, January 30, 17872

## [Bound Up in One Great Bundle of Humanity](https://www.blackpast.org/african-american-history/speeches-african-american-history/1866-frances-ellen-watkins-harper-we-are-all-bound-together/) ##
"'We are all bound up in one great bundle of humanity, and society can’t trample on the weakest and feeblest among its members without receiving the curse in its own soul,' she declared." -Frances Ellen Watkins Harper, 1866

"We have a woman in our country who has received the name of 'Moses,' not by lying about it, but by acting it out-a woman who has gone down into the Egypt of slavery and brought out hundreds of our people into liberty. The last time I saw that woman, her hands were swollen. That woman who had led one of Montgomery’s most successful expeditions, who was brave enough and secretive enough to act as a scout for the American army, had her hands all swollen from a conflict with a brutal conductor, who undertook to  eject her from her place. That woman, whose courage and bravery won a recognition from our army and from every black man in the land, is excluded from every thoroughfare of travel. Talk of giving women the ballot-box? Go on. It is a normal school, and the white women of this country need it. While there exists this brutal element in society which tramples upon the feeble and treads down the weak, I tell you that if there is any class of people who need to be lifted out of their airy nothings and selfishness, it is the white women of America." -Frances Ellen Watkins Harper, 1866

"In his 1963 'Letter from Birmingham Jail,' Martin Luther King echoed Harper's commitment to promoting a common community of interests when he wrote, 'I am cognizant of the interrelatedness of all communities and states . . . . Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. We are caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny.' These words recall Harper's statement to the women at the 1866 Eleventh National Women's Rights Convention: 'We are all bound up together in one great bundle of humanity, and society cannot trample on the weakest and feeblest of its members without receiving the curse in its own soul.' Harper argued for cooperative effort among women to protect civil rights and alleviate corruption. King argued for cooperative effort among the Alabama clergymen, concerned about his disruptive presence in the city, to work against racial injustice and protect civil rights."

## [Frances Harper Bends the Arc](https://www.uua.org/re/tapestry/youth/call/workshop2/arc) ##
"Sometimes, freedom is a long time coming.

It may take generations upon generations for justice to be won. Our Unitarian ancestor Reverend Theodore Parker said, 'I do not pretend to understand the moral universe: the arc is a long one... from what I see I am sure it bends towards justice.'

The Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr, often used this quote. Barack Obama, 44th and first African American president of the United States added,'... but here is the thing: it does not bend on its own. It bends because each of us in our own ways put our hand on that arc and we bend it in the direction of justice....'

The hands of Unitarian Universalist have been bending the arc for many years. You may have heard of John Adams, Susan B. Anthony, Christopher Reeve, or Rachel Carson. Have you heard of Frances Ellen Watkins Harper? Her hand was on the arc, too.

Harper was born a free black woman in Baltimore, Maryland in 1825. She was raised in the household of her uncle, an educator and African Methodist Episcopal (AME) minister. He was also an abolitionist—a person who objected to the enslavement of blacks. Harper followed in her uncle's footsteps to become an educator and abolitionist. She also became a writer, publishing her first book of poetry at twenty and publishing the first short story by an African American woman later in life. Her writing often urged blacks, women, and people in oppressed groups to take a firm stand for equality.

In 1850, the Fugitive Slave Act was passed. It became dangerous to be a free black in Maryland because slave owners could claim black people were runaway slaves and force them into slavery. So, Harper moved farther north to Ohio and then to Philadelphia. She taught, ran part of the Underground Railroad, and lectured around the country to bend the arc toward justice for African Americans. In 1863, abolitionists celebrated success with the passage of the Emancipation Proclamation. It did not immediately create a world where African Americans were treated equally and fairly, but it did make slavery illegal.

Harper saw that there was still work to be done. She put her hand toward women's civil rights, in particular the rights of black women and the right of all women to vote. She co-founded the National Association of Colored Women. Again, she toured and lectured on the topic of freedom. Her lectures and writings spoke to the need for women to be free to be more than wives and mothers. She understood what she was talking about: a mother herself, after her husband died Frances Harper took her daughter with her on her lecture tours.

During her justice work, Harper met many Unitarians also working to bend the arc. She felt at home with our liberal religious beliefs and knew that her work could strengthen the justice work of the Unitarians. She joined hands with them by joining the First Unitarian Church in Philadelphia in 1870. She frequently read her poetry from the pulpit at this church, yet she kept her membership and taught Sunday school at an AME church, too.

Harper died in 1911, before the 19th Amendment gave women the right to vote in 1919. This was a cause she worked hard to bring about. Yet, Harper understood that her labors might bring about freedoms she would never enjoy. She said, 'Apparent failure may hold in its rough shell the germs of a success that will blossom in time, and bear fruit throughout eternity.' Some of the fruits of Harper's labor—and the labor of other Unitarian Universalists—are enjoyed by us today. Yet, we are not done. Oppression still exists in our world. Harper's hands—and Parker's, Adam's, Anthony's, Reeve's and Carson's—are no longer on the arc. Our hands are needed to take their place."

## [The Art of Ecology](https://intercongreen.com/2012/09/12/the-art-of-ecology/) ##
"Irons finds her inspiration for her work in the complexities of natural ecologies and their interconnected component, leaving it as no surprise that I was drawn to her work immediately. One of her fascinating collections grew from the notion of bird migration related to the loss of habitat from human development. These events can cause evolutions, or even the outright collapse, of ecosystems overtime that may ultimately find their way to regrowth. Ellie walked me through the first piece in the series that works with pencil and water on paper that is collaged with pieces of vintage bird guides. A network of branch-like forms gives birth to the color and shape of birds as it evolves across the three pages of the piece before fading out with only a hint of possible rejuvenation at the end. This series evolved into a “night” migration collection that I was particularly drawn to as well.

When she is not producing innovative artwork in her studio she also teaches art to both college students at City College and second graders as a resident artist at the Learning Through Art Program at the Guggenheim."

"Ellie showed me another piece that took a different angle in reflecting on the interface and overlap between the natural and the man-made. Done in a combination of ink and watercolor, the composition has a rhythm generated by the diamonds of chain link fence over a field of colored tones with reversed silhouettes of plant life behind–the delicate overlap of leaves and stems inherently striking the parallel between the more rigid lines of twisted metal. On the right her birds return with a fluid form that resembles a completed bird at one point but dissolves into fence at one end and towards the network of leaves at the other. To me, the piece clearly highlighted how inseparable the environments of civilization and nature are with each unavoidably affecting the other.  I encourage anyone and everyone to take a more thorough look at her website.

Given that Ellie is an artist with interested in ecology and urban restoration, I had to ask her opinion of the Highline (which I think is extraordinary)."

"When asked if there were artists that had served as inspiration for her when it came to her ecological focus or natural media, she had an ample list. She mentioned Newton & Helen Mayer Harrison who work closely with the fields of ecology and biology to promote biodiversity and community development. Also included were Mark Dion and Agnus Denes. One of Denes’ most well known projects was the installation of a wheat field in the New York Battery Park landfill in 1982–grain that would ultimately be harvested at travel to 28 cities in a work that the artist described as commenting on “human values and misplaced priorities.”

Ellie’s work takes on a difficult task: trying to depict the connections of systems that are almost too complicated to describe, but the depth of her composition conveys the amount of information that operates behind the scenes. Again, despite the fact that Ellie Iron’s artwork and the informational resource of Intercon have missions that are closely related, the delivery is meaningfully different–but that could be a good thing. The more ways we can try to convey what is important, the underlying force of sustainability and why it is essential, the better chances we have of conveying more knowledge to more people. If anyone else has artists whose work operates in a similar vein, please share them as well."



