---
layout: default
---

## BLOG
As I read books and news through 2019, I will review outstanding stories critically to share light on them and the authors. Also this year and next year, I hope to look at patterns in the news, develop an artistic expression of a framework around news events, and apply an understanding of technology and photography.

<br>

### Reviews Up Next - Politics and Government
* [Why Democrats Can't Break Out of the 'Electability' Box](https://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Politics/2019/0626/Why-Democrats-can-t-break-out-of-the-electability-box)
* [What Americans Do Now Will Define Us Forever](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2019/07/send-her-back-battle-will-define-us-forever/594307/)
* [How to Save Politically ‘Mixed Marriages’ in Trump Era](https://www.csmonitor.com/Daily/2019/20190708#1091867)
* [Democracies Try to Boost Public Service](https://www.csmonitor.com/Commentary/the-monitors-view/2019/0701/Democracies-try-to-boost-public-service?cmpid=TW&utm_medium=Social&utm_source=Twitter#Echobox=1562012124)
* [The Mueller Report: An Educational Tool for Teachers — and a Surprising Hit with Book Clubs](https://www.washingtonpost.com/education/2019/07/24/mueller-report-an-educational-tool-teachers-surprising-hit-with-book-clubs/?utm_term=.1ec6c4a69fa0)

### Reviews Up Next - Capitalism and Innovation
* [A Roadmap for Reshaping Capitalism](https://www.forbes.com/sites/stevedenning/2019/07/07/a-roadmap-for-reshaping-capitalism/#2ea912b6716f)
* [What Innovation Really Means](https://www.aspeninstitute.org/blog-posts/what-innovation-really-means/)
* [Match Group’s CEO on Innovating in a Fast-Changing Industry](https://hbr.org/2019/07/match-groups-ceo-on-innovating-in-a-fast-changing-industry?utm_medium=social&utm_source=twitter&utm_campaign=hbr)
* [Community in Starbucks](https://www.citylab.com/equity/2019/06/finding-community-coffee-shop-starbucks-flushing-queens/591370/)

### Reviews Up Next - Human History
* [A Twenty-Four-Thousand-Mile Walk Across Human History](https://www.newyorker.com/news/out-of-eden/a-twenty-four-thousand-mile-walk-across-human-history?utm_social-type=owned&mbid=social_twitter&utm_medium=social&utm_brand=tny&utm_source=twitter)


<br>

<br>


### [Debate Deadline Day: 20 Candidates Set to Crowd the Stage in Detroit](https://www.politico.com/story/2019/07/16/democratic-debate-candidates-deadline-1417060)
To prepare Politico's audience for the second series of debates, Zach Montellaro shares the names of the 20 candidates that have qualified for an opportunity to argue a political viewpoint, in Detroit on July 30-31. For Montana Gov. Steve Bullock, who missed the first debates in June but gained the tiebreaker for the 20th spot, this round will be his first chance to win support in the public polls; many of the candidates will not have another chance to debate after this one.

Listing out the 20 candidates, Montellaro names the politicians: "Michael Bennet, Joe Biden, Cory Booker, Bullock, Pete Buttigieg, Julián Castro, Bill de Blasio, John Delaney, Tulsi Gabbard, Kirsten Gillibrand, Kamala Harris, John Hickenlooper, Jay Inslee, Amy Klobuchar, Beto O’Rourke, Tim Ryan, Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren, Marianne Williamson, and Andrew Yang."

After naming the candidates, Montellaro covers the importance of the debates for fundraising, a challenge that all candidates face; they all share the risk of running out of money, and the debate on CNN provides them with attention so that they can attract interested fundraisers and shift the course of their campaigns. Currently, "candidates need 2 percent in four national polls and 130,000 unique donors", and six Democratic presidential candidates - Biden, Buttigieg, Harris, O'Rourke, Sanders, and Warren - have met both of the increased thresholds. The DNC's polling and fundraising thresholds will rise, so lesser-known candidates will experience pressure, and gaining a national audience with a major media group will not grow easier. 

Unlike journalists in other news outlets, Montellaro writes less about the political issues and the candidates themselves, and he writes more about the reality of the political competition, the fundraising thresholds, and the importance of media coverage. His article helps readers understand the importance of the debate and the CNN coverage for the campaigns, and his article prepares readers to listen closely to the arguments on July 30-31 amdist the pressure on the politicians. Reading other articles covering the candidates' individual backgrounds and the deeper issues will prepare readers further to hear the arguments.


### [How President Trump Became the GOP’s ‘New Normal’](https://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Politics/2019/0715/How-President-Trump-became-the-GOP-s-new-normal)
Amidst the Democratic party's debates, Republicans consider how President Donald Trump's provocative style changed public discourse as they prepare to make decisions that impact the future. In the middle of July, 15 days after the first series of the Democratic party's clashing of ideas, Linda Feldman highlights how a staunch Republican, Ari Fleischer, who served as President George Bush's press secretary, left the ballot blank because of his dislike of Trump's approach. While three years later, Mr. Fleisher says he would vote for President Trump because of his policies, he claims that "the president rhetorically goes too far", and Republicans need to speak up to prevent his speaking style from becoming normalized.

Everyone paying attention to Twitter from the White House has seen Trump's rhetoric, and it's disgusting. Feldman shares a recent example of his words that go too far in Mr. Fleischer's opinion. 

"The president went on a Twitter tirade against a group of Democratic congresswomen of color – calling on them to 'go back' to their countries of origin, though all but one are American-born. By Monday afternoon, only about a dozen Republicans in Congress had contradicted him.

One of Mr. Trump’s closest allies on Capitol Hill, Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, doubled down on the president’s point. 

'We all know that AOC and this crowd are a bunch of communists. ... They’re anti-Semitic. They’re anti-America,' Senator Graham said on Fox News, referring to Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., who was born in New York.  

Mr. Trump then reinforced Mr. Graham’s commentary by tweeting it out. 

For his part, Mr. Fleischer tweeted Monday that Mr. Trump’s statement was 'completely inappropriate.' But he says the incident doesn’t change his support for the president."

While Mr. Fleischer applauds Trump's stance on policy, he does not support his inappropriate communication style. But with limited pushback on Trump's manners from other Republicans, is the party submitting to a "new normal"? Party leaders like Mr. Fleischer hope to reconsider whether they submit fully to this and think carefully while heading into the future. Other Republican leaders have begun to speak up also. Feldman explains, "on Capitol Hill, negative Republican reactions began trickling in Monday afternoon. The two African American GOP members – Rep. Will Hurd of Texas and Sen. Tim Scott of South Carolina – registered their objections. Most of the other Republicans who pushed back on Mr. Trump have been known to criticize him before, including Sen. Susan Collins of Maine. She said she disagrees 'strongly' with House progressives on policy but called Mr. Trump’s tweet 'way over the line.'" But dominant Republicans still stand behind Trump in leading with aggressive tactics, opening the way for American citizens to ask "what is normal?"

Feldman supports citizen readers in answering this question by defining normal. She writes, "The word 'normal' is deceptively simple. It can refer to a statistical norm in scientifically measurable phenomena, such as weather, and it can also be deployed in the highly subjective world of politics. The philosopher Ian Hacking once called the use of the word 'one of the most powerful ideological tools of the 20th century.'" Trump's way of making false statements through "misspeaking, dissembling, exaggerating in a way typical for politicians and salesmen, or lying outright" is nothing like what the American people have seen before in an era where Twitter, Youtube videos, and Facebook lie in our hands; and his "outisize[d] presidential personalit[y]" compares to historic ones, including Andrew Jackson's and Teddy Roosevelt's. Historically, more conventional figures - Martin Van Buren and William Howard Taft - have succeeded these types of presidents and shifted the country back to "normal", or moderacy. "'The political system is making choices every day about how much of this we accept,'" however, as Ms. Greenberg says, and people on both sides of the aisle, within a country of free men and women, can speak up to decide what becomes normalized within the country.


### [Onstage, Democrats Clash on Ideas. Offstage, Is There More Common Ground?](https://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Politics/2019/0628/Onstage-Democrats-clash-on-ideas.-Offstage-is-there-more-common-ground)
During the second night of the Democratic presidential candidates debate in Miami, FL, Jessica Mendoza wrote on how onstage, the audience saw the chaotic, clashing of ideas, but offstage, citizens asked the question, "can everyone stand on more common ground and against the threat that President Donald Trump poses?". After painting the picture of the first night of debates well with a vibrant vocabulary, the political chaos came to greater life after the second night with 20 candidates in the Democratic party disagreeing over how to unify the party and the nation.

As the party and the nation search for a "unifying figure", candidates debated to answer the main question:  "how far left does the Democratic party go in governing?" On one side of the debate, pragmatists argued, and Vice President Joe Biden embodied this subparty. On the other side of the debates, idealists argued, and Senator Warren and Senator Bernie Sanders competed in "argu[ing] that America’s problems are far bigger than the man in the White House and will require radical, systemic overhauls of government and the economy." Creating more dissonance on stage rather than resonance, candidates answered the question of how they represent the demographics and experiences of the younger generation, and argued that older candidates should "pass the torch." Mendoza highlighted Sen. Kamala Harris, who represents African-Americans, and Mayor Pete Buttigieg, who represents the gay community, to portray how newer candidates better represent younger Americans. Mendoza ignored newer, entrepreneurial candidates like Andrew Yang, who has a background in working with young post-college students in startups and supporting human-centered capitalism, until later in the story.

Onstage during the debate, the American people saw disagreement, but offstage, Mendoza shared how debate attendees observed "a kind of camaraderie emerg[ing]...as candidates and their staff were forced to interact and at times even work together." Offstage, all candidates agreed on seeing President Donald Trump as a threat to the nation's health, particularly due to the destructive immigration policy; and citizens at the debate outside witnessed candidates mutually denouncing the Trump administration's immigration policy outside of the Homestead Temporary Shelter for Unaccompanied Children, a migrant children's detention center. As debate attendees saw candidates yelling "We love you!" in Spanish to the locked-in children with heart-shaped signs. Leaving idealist readers with hope, Mendoza summarizes, "It was somewhat remarkable to see a group of candidates who, less than 10 hours earlier, had been battling it out onstage now sharing a microphone and nodding together as each spoke in turn. It was a reminder that, for all their differences, the Democrats still have more that unifies them than divides them."

Ending the story, Mendoza writes that "Game 1" sends the overall vibe of the event preceding a series of debates leading into 2020, with [the second round occurring in Detroit on July 30 and 31](https://www.politico.com/story/2019/07/16/democratic-debate-candidates-deadline-1417060). Many standing with politicians, like political observers, Democratic voters, and campaign managers, at the end of the day, have their eyes and ears open simply for a "candidate who speaks to them - someone who has conviction, who conveys compassion and authority"; Mendoza provides comments from people on how the party can't be subdivided as much as they appear to be in the media when everyone grows united around the shared values that underly agendas. I think these statements ignore the nuances of the different, competing means to achieve certain ends; but Mendoza captures multiple sides of the story in this article, including pro-Trump protesters at the event.


### [How to Talk to Small Kids about Big Issues Like Border Walls](https://qz.com/1659920/how-to-talk-to-kids-about-immigration-and-trumps-border-wall/?utm_source=Twitter&utm_medium=qz-organic&utm_campaign=hootsuite)
Normally, adults prefer to preserve the innocence of their little ones' and not talk to them about the harsh realities of the world. Ephrat Livni, a writer for Quartz, wrote in July 2019, on how to talk to kids about big news and issues because he claims that "kids hear things" anyways, through fragments of conversations. If kids already overhear fragments of the issues, why do adults not discuss the full picture with little children more thoughtfully? Livni shares information on a book to convey how possible ways for adults to talk realistically about issues with their children exist; adults do not have to over-shelter their children.

On July 9 in the US, Happy Fox Books released [The Wall: A Timeless Tale](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43973339-the-wall), by Giancarlo Macri and Carolina Zotti, with illustrations by Mauro Sacco and Elisa Vallarino. The book, "a bright, humorous, and lively" one, "with a sweet and very simple style designed to facilitate conversation about complex issues, educate, and entertain", can help address the problems, Livni writes. Children's experiences confirm that the life lessons that books teach can help children make decisions in the real world. That's why it's magical that Livni summarizes the book's story through the following paragraphs:

"[The Wall: A Timeless Tale](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43973339-the-wall) tells the story of a king who has not left his castle for a long time. When he finally emerges and surveys his land, he finds it’s full of all different kinds of people, and he urges an aid to build a wall to keep out anyone who looks unlike him (he is blue and others are a slew of different colors). The aid (who is also blue), is skeptical of this plan, and asks, 'Sir, are you sure?'

But the monarch says he is, so his assistant follows instructions, driving out everyone who doesn’t look like them and constructing a barrier. The king’s wall manifests in the book as a thick cardboard pop-up barrier emerging from the text’s spine. It’s tactile, tough, and can withstand the grabby hands of even the most engaged child readers while clearly demonstrating the effects of separation. Page by page, the kingdom grows less colorful and rich, the space on the pages surrounding the king more blank...

...When all the king’s wishes have been fulfilled, he is still unsatisfied. The kingdom is crowded and colorful again and the book’s pages are filled with different faces, but the wall now appears to the leader an unnecessary barrier because all the people inside and outside seem so talented and attractive. So he calls for its destruction, blaming his assistant for ever building it. When the wall is down again, he happily tells his aid, 'This is much better. I’m glad I thought of getting rid of that wall!'"

These paragraphs bring visually the news article's audience into a childlike reading experience, sharing a new way to teach kids about controversial, world affairs. Livni uses few of his own words and ideas, but he shares a new type of story for children that can help students engage with the news. I think that the article would improve with more of Livni's own interpretation and commentation; I think he needs to express a larger overarching argument that uses sources other than just [The Wall]((https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43973339-the-wall)) as supporting evidence for how and why adults can educate their kids about social issues in the media. Despite the weakness of the article, I love the topic and hope to read the book! And I hope to see more like this book also!


### [Independence Day in a Divided America](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2019/07/unity-fourth-of-july/593206/?utm_term=2019-07-04T20%3A08%3A53&utm_campaign=the-atlantic&utm_medium=social&utm_content=edit-promo&utm_source=twitter)
Conor Friedersdorf, a staff writer with The Atlantic, wrote on Independence Day, during this time of 21st century political fragmentation. Directing words to US citizens on the 4th of July, he captures the ability of the US people to find common ground amidst polarizing viewpoints through Abraham Lincoln's words: “A husband and wife may be divorced and go out of the presence and beyond the reach of each other,” Abraham Lincoln observed, “but the different parts of our country can not do this. They cannot but remain face to face, and intercourse, either amicable or hostile, must continue." Through this statement, Friedersdorf expresses confidence in the solidity of the United States of America and in the American people's ability to stand undivorced; and no better day than the 4th of July exists to remind us of our united, unseparated states.

Writing on the history of the country's celebration of its independence during major periods - the signing of the declaration of independence, the emancipating of slaves, the proclaiming of common ground a decade after the civil war, the fighting for freedom by new immigrants in the early 1900s, and the celebrating of the Bicentennial during post-Cold War period - Friedersdorf highlights moments in which Americans stood united and overcame challenges to reawaken the nation's purpose. 

In the late 1700s, initially, only nine of the original 13 colonies voted for independence; but three days later, three more colonies joined in to vote, leading to solid support behind the new nation. And despite the new nation not living up to its ideals at first, Frederick Douglass praised the Founders' best qualities in his oration during the civil war period, expressing confidence in the country's ability to overcome racial divides. Although at the end of the civil war period, the "new black 'freedmen'" felt more free to celebrate the country's national holiday than did the Caucasian Americans, with the emancipation of slaves "complet[ing] the American Revolution", Americans together declared, a decade later, the Fourth of July to be a "common heritage" for both black and white, and northern and southern people. Americans continued to explore how to find this common heritage as a new wave of immigrants entered into the country, seeking freedom, in the 1900s; the immigrants fought for the barriers between newly naturalized citizens and native borns to be swept aside. And after the tumult of the Cold War years, Americans found healing through the celebration of the Bicentennial and felt free to unite around the spirit, with someone writing, "This has rejuvenated my faith in America".

As demonstrated through each of these major periods, America finds ways to evolve from a nation faced with trials into an even stronger country with belief in the words, "all humans are created equal and 'endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness'", at the end of the day. Though sometimes these words may seem like ["luminous rhetoric"](https://www.amazon.com/Where-Do-We-Here-Community/dp/0807000671) only, Friedersdorf purposefully presents how "the principles of the declaration are still there to unite us, even amid the persistent divisions that define this moment".

While Friedersdorf applies an understanding of history to make a statement and to capture the heart of the common citizen on a national holiday, I do not think he expresses the theme overarching the article strongly enough, and I do not think he weaves the theme throughout the article from period to period well enough. I do not think he successfully conveys the main point because he leaves out the many details that press on the minds of both citizens and politicians in the debates, lead to collective psychosis, and create a sense that the statement, "all humans are created equal", is filled only with ["luminous rhetoric"](https://www.amazon.com/Where-Do-We-Here-Community/dp/0807000671); and I think he loosely ties together the historic periods he highlights with an interconnecting argument for a binding belief. At the end of the article, however, I do believe that the country can put rhetoric into practice and overcome the current crisis of polarizing viewpoints; but collectively we must move from carrying belief in an idealistic dream to fulfilling the beautiful dream.


### [How Hinduism Became a Political Weapon in India](https://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2019/05/hindu-nationalism-narendra-modi-india-election/590053/)
On May 24, 2019, Jonah Blank wrote an article on how religion drives politics in India. With eloquent language, the author, Blank, depicts the landscape in which Hindu priests read Sanksrit chants and engage in other religious activities. Then, he states "the creed of the governing Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)" - Hindutva, which differs from the Hinduism religion; and the relationship between faith and politics drives the politics of one of the largest nations on Earth. While the author uses great language and explains the difference between Hindutvi and Hinduism well, Blank fails to depict the conflict between Hindus and Muslims, which makes stronger the point of religion influencing politics.

Moving on to portray the holiest Hindu city, Blank shifts from the main point of the news article to a specific place within the story that provides supporting evidence of the relationship between faith and politics. Describing the politics, he shares how in the city "posters of Prime Minister Narenda Modi are slapped" everywhere with "orange-and-green flags bearing the lotus leaf", and citizens can see few election signs representing competing parties. Describing the relationship between Hinduism and politics, he explains how Modi, who has just won a second five-year term, seeks to reformulate the Hindu religion so that practitioners' grandparents no longer understand their faith; Modi is using religion as a "political weapon", and while Blank still does not mention Muslims, Modi is doing so amidst great warfar between Hindus and Muslims. 

What explains the radical change? Identity explains the change. People in the country, particularly those behind the Hindutva movement, need to reshape the caste system and "decolonize" ([India: how some Hindu nationalists are rewriting caste history in the name of decolonisation](http://theconversation.com/india-how-some-hindu-nationalists-are-rewriting-caste-history-in-the-name-of-decolonisation-114133)).

Blank writes about how across all major religions, "for many today, religion is less a matter of what you believe, or even what you do, than of who you are". Hindutva translates into "Hindu-ness", suggesting an element of identity, and people think of Hinduism as more of an identity than a theology. Until now, people in the Hindu religion would have never expected to agree in how they identify themselves; family, village, or caste have rather been at the root of their identities. The Hindutva movement, which began during the Colonial period, started as a result for a political desire for developing a shared identity to unite everyone in India, while not dictating what people should believe; and few leaders within the movement have been holy leaders. The Hindutva movement supported branding the country, not indoctriating the citizens. While Modi has not always worked on the Hindutva platform, the Prime Minister now uses it as a weapon and praises Gandhi, who reshaped Hinduism significantly more than the Hindutva movement founders did, to embrace nonviolence rather than to brand the country. Modi needs a tool to decolonise the country, and Hindutva serves as that tool.

As Modi amplifies the Hindutva pitch, Hindus war against Muslims and Muslims war against Hindus in the land. Campaigning on the Hindutva platform supports the country's national identity amidst this warfare. Summarizing the identity issue  behind Modi's work, Blank writes the following: "Instead, the issues are those of identity: We’re being outbred by minorities. We’re being laughed at by the world. We’re overrun with immigrants—and you know what kind. We’re second-class citizens in our own nation. Make India Great Again." As people in the US have expressed fear of minorities, and people who are different and not traditionally part of the dominant group, like Muslims, people in India have expressed similar fears. Campaigning on the Hindutva platform helps change India in the way people with concerns need it to change through the political exploitation of religion.

To further provide evidence in support of the article's main point, Blank moves the focus onto Delhi, another city. Hindutva determined the election results in this city; and Hindutva dominated the debates. Hindutva is helping through the heart to change the country and reshape it and the caste system ([India: how some Hindu nationalists are rewriting caste history in the name of decolonisation](http://theconversation.com/india-how-some-hindu-nationalists-are-rewriting-caste-history-in-the-name-of-decolonisation-114133)). The reshaping is not on the basis of religious ideology, however; the reshaping is on the basis of something deeper than the eyes - the heart of identity: "Hindutva is not about what your eyes tell you; it’s about what your heart tells you. It’s not about what you see; it’s about how you see yourself. How you see your identity, your brand, your place in the world. Understand this, and you can better understand the changes under way in India."


### [Opinion: The People Screaming for Blood Have No Idea How Tech Actually Works](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/04/opinion/facebook-google-regulation.html) 
On June 4, 2019, Kara Swisher wrote an opinion article on how regulators have grown more concerned with controlling technology but in haphazard ways. Swisher explains how over the past decade, technological risks have existed, but legislators have not cared what technology companies do with sloppy management of data and infrastructure a few years ago; warning signs of "rampant disinformation, egregious privacy breaches and in-plain-sight addictive elements built right into the medium" existed a decade ago, but regulators have never mitigated problems proactively or taken steps to understand the technology. Now, once problems grow more severe, legislators and policy makers enter the scene with legal pads to address privacy and security issues, but they do so in thoughtless ways that demonstrate poor understanding of the best solutions. Ultimately, Swisher argues that while she agrees that America must regulate technology, self-interest drives the current efforts, making them reactive; and America needs more proactive and collaborative work.

The author's negative sentiment on how the time has passed for regulators to step in and that they have not implemented a forward-thinking approach makes sense; but technology companies expect to build bigger, more expansive tools that may create even more risk  over the next ten years, so it is imperative that regulators do thoughtful work now. Swisher fails to mention the work that groups likes [Aspen Technology Policy Hub](https://www.aspentechpolicyhub.org/#/) and [The Bridge](https://thebridgework.com/) have coordinated to connect policy makers, regulators, and technologists. As demonstrated by the thought from these groups, potential for creative collaboration and positive solutions lies ahead, and their work resonates with the author's concluding opinion:

"Instead of just reacting, we need our government to be creatively proactive. Regulators should be thinking about how to use federal incentives to spur small business creation to bring meaningful jobs and new innovations to this country; how to persuade investors to spread more venture capital beyond the three states (California, Massachusetts and New York) that get most of it; how to push for a more diverse work force and fund ambitious education programs, which other countries do without pause; how to anticipate the human impact of the next group of technologies like artificial intelligence and advanced robotics; how to create the most forward-thinking infrastructure plan to modernize our cities; and how to encourage tech to focus on innovations to combat existential issues like climate change, and food and water shortages."


### [Opinion: Community ‘Weavers’ Create Stronger Social Fabric](https://www2.ljworld.com/opinion/2019/feb/23/opinion-community-weavers-create-stronger-social-fabric/) and [A Nation of Weavers: The Social Renaissance is Happening from the Ground Up](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/18/opinion/culture-compassion.html?action=click&module=RelatedLinks&pgtype=Article)
On February 18, 2019 and February 23, 2019, David Brooks wrote opinion articles [A Nation of Weavers: The Social Renaissance is Happening from the Ground Up](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/18/opinion/culture-compassion.html?action=click&module=RelatedLinks&pgtype=Article) and [Opinion: Community ‘Weavers’ Create Stronger Social Fabric](https://www2.ljworld.com/opinion/2019/feb/23/opinion-community-weavers-create-stronger-social-fabric/). In the articles, he covered the work with the Aspen Institute to move beyond hyper-individualism and tribalism in order to repair social relationships through satisfying commitments and service to the common good. 

In a world where there's a rise in social isolation, a decline in commitment to religion, and an increase in partisan politics, people seek middle ground and alternative ways of being human. [Weaving people together](https://www.aspeninstitute.org/programs/weave-the-social-fabric-initiative/), embracing people's deeper selves, and building bridges across divides through dialogue and creative expression helps to begin to meet the needs of those seeking substance and healing. Brooks's opinion resonates with work that people are doing elsewhere with [The Gathering Summit](https://www.gatheringsummit.com/) to gather people together more creatively and artistically in both the secular and religious worlds; and research on [reimagining religion and creative communities](https://crcc.usc.edu/reimagining-religion-the-10-qualities-of-creative-communities/) also ties together with claims that lead to his opinion. To strengthen any news article on weavemaking, capturing the broader views on community development coming from leaders with [The Gathering Summit](https://www.gatheringsummit.com/) would strengthen the story; and in stories covering community, there exists much to unpack given the realities facing politics, religion, the mental health system, and spiritual organizations. 

Brooks acknowledges well that highly political people likely will object to his critiques on the state of society, capitalism, and focus on spiritual well-being. Recognizing sources of pushback, and what the counter arguments are, conveys to the reader that he sees other perspectives. However, Brooks remains firm in his opinion that coming together to seek solutions in unity with one another can help individually and collectively to heal within during a time of political fragmentation. Community is not the only way to support people in a time of great change, mental sickness, and divisiveness, but it is a central part to health, and other solutions, products, or forms of human expression can flow out. Recognizing neighbors as whole and encouraging them to bring their full selves to their day to day work through "radical mutuality" underpins the opinion.

It's meaningful that Brooks refers to thoughts of deep thinkers when he writes, "Relationalism had clear (and acknowledged) debts to the Catholic idea of the common good, to Martin Luther King Jr.’s conception of “the beloved community,” to Alexis de Tocqueville’s celebration of American volunteerism and to Edmund Burke’s preference for the small and natural over the large and ideological" to support his opinion. It will be exciting to learn of how people apply his opinion through action.


### [Beyond clichés: Teen Anxiety Prompts Closer Look at Young Lives](https://www.csmonitor.com/The-Culture/2019/0307/Beyond-cliches-Teen-anxiety-prompts-closer-look-at-young-lives)
On March 7, 2019, Chelsea Sheasley wrote an article, [Beyond clichés: Teen Anxiety Prompts Closer Look at Young Lives](https://www.csmonitor.com/The-Culture/2019/0307/Beyond-cliches-Teen-anxiety-prompts-closer-look-at-young-lives), with the Christian Science Monitor. The importance and timeliness of a national health topic makes this article newsworthy. This sits online as one of many reports analyzing the challenge facing teenagers.

Relying on insights from interviews with middle schoolers, and results of surveys conducted by Pew Research Center, the report explains why more teenagers experience anxiety. Sheasley summarizes, "There’s no consensus among researchers about what drives teen anxiety, although common theories include fear of failure, the rise of smartphones and social media, changing parenting styles, and a world that feels unusually chaotic." The report informs readers about trends in teen anxiety in concise way and synthesizes data from a variety of sources; however, the report could improve with deeper statistcal analysis of data on anxiety as evidence.

Moving the report on anxiety from what causes the illness to ways to help teenagers, the words, 'It's ok to be kind to yourself' highlight how education on self-compassion shifts how students can learn to respond to challenges and setbacks. Education as a solution presented in this article resonates with the products EVERFI delivers to schools so that students can learn about [Mental Health](https://everfi.com/offerings/listing/mental-wellness/), and [Compassion](https://thecompassionproject.com/about/), a way to help students calm down and better relate to one another. As Sheasley writes, anxiety does not have to be permanent, but building awareness of challenges facing teens, as well as how best to work with them inside and outside of the classroom, helps people to address the public health issue.

<br>







