## Why is Nashville the Center of Everything? ##

## Romanticized South and Romanticized West, Scottish Romanticism, #MakeAmericaGreatAgain ##

## How is History Shared? ##

## How Music Heals ##

## Trucking and Automation ##

## [Southern White Patriarchy](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/335328771_Southern_White_Patriarchy) ##
"The pedestal upon which southern white womanhood stands is buttressed by an equally sacred southern white masculinity characterized by a distorted notion of honor, a penchant for violence, and male righteousness and superiority. Thus, Second-Wave Feminism spurred not only a defiant anti-feminism with which many white southern men and women identified, but also a men’s rights campaign that portrayed men as victims of reverse discrimination and promoted a dominant and defensive masculinity that was very familiar to southern white audiences. This misogyny, along with a religious assertion of manhood that was popular in southern evangelical churches, provided Republicans with an opportunity to build their partisan brand among white southerners. Often masked by romanticized notions of chivalry, southern white masculinity depends upon a patriarchal system and the traditional gender roles inherent in that system. The GOP would appeal to both as it chased southern white voters throughout the Long Southern Strategy."

## [Occupational Therapy](https://www.slideshare.net/StephanvanBreenenCli/occupational-therapy-and-intellectual-disability) ##

## [Robber Barons](https://mises.org/library/truth-about-robber-barons) ##

## [Robber Barons](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robber_baron) ##

## [US Railway Mail Service](https://www.archives.gov/publications/prologue/2005/fall/fast-mail-1.html) ##

## [Railway Post Office](https://www.cs.mcgill.ca/~rwest/wikispeedia/wpcd/wp/r/Railway_post_office.htm) ##

## [The Myth of the Cowboy](https://www.theguardian.com/books/2013/mar/20/myth-of-the-cowboy) ##
"Our starting point is the fact that, in and outside Europe, the 'western' in its modern sense – that is, the myth of the cowboy – is a late variant of a very early and deep-rooted image: that of the wild west in general. Fenimore Cooper, whose popularity in Europe followed immediately upon his first publication – Victor Hugo thought he was 'the American Walter Scott' – is the most familiar version of this. Nor is he dead. Without the memory of Leatherstocking, would English punks have invented Mohican hairstyles?

The original image of the wild west, I suggest, contains two elements: the confrontation of nature and civilisation, and of freedom with social constraint. Civilisation is what threatens nature; and their move from bondage or constraint into independence, which constitutes the essence of America as a radical European ideal in the 18th and early 19th centuries, is actually what brings civilisation into the wild west and so destroys it. The plough that broke the plains is the end of the buffalo and the Indian.

In terms of literary pedigree, the invented cowboy was a late romantic creation. But in terms of social content, he had a double function: he represented the ideal of individualist freedom pushed into a sort of inescapable jail by the closing of the frontier and the coming of the big corporations. As a reviewer said of Frederic Remington's articles, illustrated by himself in 1895, the cowboy roamed 'where the American may still revel in the great red-shirted freedom which has been pushed so far to the mountain wall that it threatens soon to expire somewhere near the top'. In hindsight, the west could seem thus, as it seemed to that sentimentalist and first great star of movie westerns William S Hart, for whom the cattle and mining frontier 'to this country … means the very essence of national life … It is but a generation or so since virtually all this country was frontier. Consequently its spirit is bound up in American citizenship.' As a quantitative statement this is absurd, but its significance is symbolic. And the invented tradition of the west is entirely symbolic, inasmuch as it generalises the experience of a comparative handful of marginal people. Who, after all, cares that the total number of deaths by gunshot in all the major cattle towns put together between 1870 and 1885 – in Wichita plus Abilene plus Dodge City plus Ellsworth – was 45, or an average of 1.5 per cattle-trading season, or that local western newspapers were not filled with stories about bar-room fights, but about property values and business opportunities?

Is this Reaganite myth of the west an international tradition? I think not. In the first place because the major American medium by which the invented west was propagated has died out. The western novel, as I have suggested, is no longer an international phenomenon. The private eye has killed the Virginian. Larry McMurtry and his like, whatever their place in American literature, are virtually unknown outside their native country. As for the western movie, it was killed by TV; and the western TV series, which was probably the last genuinely international mass triumph of the invented west, became a mere adjunct to children's hour, and in turn it has faded away. Where are Hopalong Cassidy, The Lone Ranger, Roy Rogers, Laramie, Gunsmoke and the rest on which the kids of the 1950s thrived? The real western movie became deliberately highbrow, a carrier of social, moral and political significance in the 1950s, until it in turn collapsed under their weight as well as the advancing age of the makers and stars – of Ford and Wayne and Cooper. I'm not criticising them. On the contrary, practically all the westerns that any of us would wish to see again date from after Stagecoach (which was released in 1939). But what carried the west into the hearts and homes of five continents was not movies that aimed at winning Oscars or critical applause. What is more, once the late western movie had itself become infected by Reaganism – or by John Wayne as an ideologist – it became so American that most of the rest of the world didn't get the point, or, if it did, didn't like it.

In Britain, at least, the word 'cowboy' today has a secondary meaning, which is much more familiar than the primary meaning of a fellow in the Marlboro ads: a fellow who comes in from nowhere offering a service, such as to repair your roof, but who doesn't know what he's doing or doesn't care except about ripping you off: a 'cowboy plumber' or a 'cowboy bricklayer'. I leave you to speculate (a) how this secondary meaning derives from the Shane or John Wayne stereotype and (b) how much it reflects the reality of the Reaganite wearers of dude Stetsons in the sunbelt. I don't know when the term first appears in British usage, but certainly it was not before the mid-1960s. In this version, what a man's got to do is to fleece us and disappear into the sunset.

What was so special about cowboys? First, clearly, that they occurred in a country that was universally visible and central to the 19th-century world, of which it constituted, as it were, the utopian dimension: the living dream. Anything that happened in America seemed bigger, more extreme, more dramatic and unlimited, even when it wasn't – and of course often it was, though not in the case of the cowboys. Second, because the purely local vogue for western myth was magnified and internationalised by means of the global influence of American popular culture, the most original and creative in the industrial and urban world, and the mass media that carried it and which the US dominated. And let me observe in passing that it made its way in the world not only directly, but also indirectly, via the European intellectuals it attracted to the US, or at a distance.

This would certainly explain why cowboys are better known than vaqueros or gauchos, but not, I think, the full range of the international vibrations they set up, or used to set up. This, I suggest, is due to the in-built anarchism of American capitalism. I mean not only the anarchism of the market, but the ideal of an individual uncontrolled by any constraints of state authority. In many ways the 19th-century US was a stateless society. Compare the myths of the American and the Canadian west: the one is a myth of a Hobbesian state of nature mitigated only by individual and collective self-help: licensed or unlicensed gunmen, posses of vigilantes and occasional cavalry charges. The other is the myth of the imposition of government and public order as symbolised by the uniforms of the Canadian version of the horseman-hero, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.

I don't think it was an accident that the ideal-typical cowboy hero of the classic invented west was a loner, not beholden to anyone; nor, I think, that money was not important for him. As Tom Mix put it: "I ride into a place owning my own horse, saddle and bridle. It isn't my quarrel, but I get into trouble doing the right thing for somebody else. When it's all ironed out, I never get any money reward.

In a way the loner lent himself to imaginary self-identification just because he was a loner. To be Gary Cooper at high noon or Sam Spade, you just have to imagine you are one man, whereas to be Don Corleone or Rico, let alone Hitler, you have to imagine a collective of people who follow and obey you, which is less plausible. I suggest that the cowboy, just because he was a myth of an ultra-individualist society, the only society of the bourgeois era without real pre-bourgeois roots, was an unusually effective vehicle for dreaming – which is all that most of us get in the way of unlimited opportunities. To ride alone is less implausible than to wait until that marshal's baton in your knapsack becomes reality."

## [Cowboys in Life and Legend](https://faculty.chass.ncsu.edu/slatta/cowboys/CBintro.htm) ##
"Etymologists trace the use of the term cowboy back to 1000 AD in Ireland. Swift used it in 1705, logically enough, to describe a boy who tends cows. Modern usage, first in hyphenated form, dates from the 1830s in Texas. Colonel John S. "Rip" Ford used the word cow-boy to describe the Texan border raider who drove off Mexican cattle during the 1830s. The term carried a tinge of wildness, of life at the fringes of law and 'civilization.' After the American Civil War, Westerners applied the term cowboy to ranch hands, rather than cattle thieves. 

The Denver Republican (October 1, 1883) observed that 'it matters not what age, if a man works on a salary and rides after the herd, he is called a 'cowboy.' A cowboy, then as now, is a man who works at least part of the year as a salaried ranch hand. Ranchers or 'cowmen' owned land and cattle; cowboys did not own land and seldom owned cattle.

The cowboy of the American West, a dashing figure in popular novels and films, was in reality a poorly paid laborer engaged in difficult, dirty, often monotonous work. During the years after the Civil War the range cattle industry spread northward from Texas. During the 1870s cowboying spread to the Southwest and the northern plains. Although some of the young men who worked on these ranches were from the northeastern states, a majority were probably southerners. Many had fought for the Confederacy. 

Cowboys branding cattle - RACE: Unlike most movie depictions, not all cowboys were white. Racial distribution varied from place-to-place. Mostly Anglo cowboys worked the Montana ranges. Further south, however, in Texas, for example, perhaps one-third of the hands may have been African-Americans or Mexican-Americans. 

Cowboys herding cattle - WORK LIFE: The Cowboy's work year centered on two big events, the roundup and the long drive. Roundups were held in the spring and often also in the fall. After cowboys had herded cattle to a central location, they branded newborn calves, castrated and dehorned older animals, and, in the spring, chose the cattle to be taken to market. 

From 1865 to 1880 at least 3.5 million cattle were driven in herds of between 1,500 and 3,000 from southern Texas to cattle towns on rail lines in Kansas, Nebraska, and Wyoming. The route most frequently used was the Chisholm Trail which went to Abilene, Kansas. Working up to 20 hours a day, cowboys drove the animals from one watering place to the next. They had to guard against predators (two- and four-footed), straying cattle, and stampedes at night. For his hard and dirty work the typical cowboy earned between $25 and $40 a month. 

By about 1890 much of the range had been fenced. The westward extension of the railroads eliminated the need for the long cattle drives. The 'good old days' of epic drives and open range riding came to an end. At this point, however, dime novels wild west shows, and books such as Owen Wister's The Virginian (1902) offered the nostalgic public a stalwart, romantic cowboy hero. Although far removed from the drab truth, the image of excitement, freedom, and drama continues to dominate popular accounts of the cattle frontier. 

Cowboys bedding down for the night - VIEWS OF THE COWBOY: The cowboy generated conflicting appraisals. When observed at the end of a long trail drive, 'hellin' 'round town," cowboys attracted little praise. The Topeka Commonwealth (August 15, 1871), painted an unflattering portrait of the cowboy on a tear.

Cowboys were no paragons of virtue, as many romantics and popularizers would have it. Nor were they the uncouth barbarians of the plains described by self-anointed spokesmen of civilization and culture. Externalities--principally the law and employers--imposed restrictions that shaped their lives. But cowboys lived as much as possible by their own internal codes of conduct. The cardinal virtues for the American cowboy were to do his best and to be cheerful, courageous, uncomplaining, helpful, and chivalrous. Of course, few cowboys maintained these ideals at all times in their lives."

## [Country Music](https://www.indiewire.com/2019/09/country-music-pbs-ken-burns-rosanne-cash-marty-stuart-1202173799/) ##
"The actual musicians who came onto the project were also able to help bridge the gap between these facts and the lore. Country music is rife with storytelling, and it’s just natural that some stories become more important that the actual way that events happen. Songwriter Harland Howard had once said, 'Country music is three chords and the truth. In the series, Texan singer-songwriter Rodney Crowell said, 'Country music at its best is truth-telling even when it’s a big fat lie.'"

Embracing country music means to embrace the storytelling, and thus it honors the colorful yarns spun and larger-than-life figures.

I listened to Sam [Phillips] tell how he discovered Elvis. The truth was better than anything Sam ever told, but that nobody was going to go, ‘Sam, that’s not how it happened.'” said Stuart. 'One thing that I love about country music, probably more so than any other culture – maybe the blues rivals it – there are so many American folk heroes. There’s the Coal Miner’s Daughter, the Man in Black, the Red-Headed Stranger, and on and on. They didn’t become folk heroes by pure myth; the thing I love is all of those people were voted in by the people.

The origins of country music can’t ignore the black influence, and the first episode is even titled 'The Rub,' referring to the friction or rubbing between black and white America. For example, the banjo is seen as a classic country music instrument, and it was descended from the African lute that was made from gourds. 'Country music comes from the south because that’s where slavery happened,' the series says.

In the series, only a handful of black country music performers are highlighted, and the common denominator in these stories is how race became an issue in their success and how they were perceived. Of course, standouts like Charley Pride and Carolina Chocolate Drops frontwoman Rhannon Giddens have been embraced in the field, but it still feels as if inclusion is still the exception. Although the series doesn’t venture far past 1996, one wonders how it would’ve handled the importance of someone like Lil Nas X – an out and proud gay black rapper who topped the country charts with his remix of his song “Old Town Road” with Billy Ray Cyrus.

Cash acknowledges how the personal accounts can color the story, but emphasizes that some facts just cannot be ignored, even by those who’d wish otherwise.

My own experience can’t help but color what I put out there. They were very generous and had respect about wanting to see through that prism, but everybody had it through their own prism,' she said. 'Facts are facts obviously – although today we are told they’re not – but they are. Seeing those facts through how they influenced different musicians and also the cohesion of how they told the story – bringing together Appalachian music and Bob Wills and Bakersfield and the African banjo and early folk music – all were put into the piece.'

Early setbacks for black artists are given a passing mention, before the series moves on. African-American musician DeFord Bailey was the first musician to be introduced on the Grand Ole Opry radio program and its first black performer when it became a stage show. When he went on tour, many of his fellow white performers had to stick by him when he was refused service because of his race. But in 1941, during the height of the licensing wars, he refused to learn non-ASCAP songs and was promptly fired. Judge George Hay, who had first hired Bailey, wrote off his longtime colleague, saying, 'Like many of his race, he was lazy.'

Although 'Country Music' doesn’t delve much deeper to examine the everyday racism in the music and its greatest stars, the truth lies in the present day. The mingling of cultures brought about this new genre, and yet, it’s evolved to forget and exclude African Americans. Or perhaps black America has decided to leave country music behind."



https://biologicalrootsofhumanity.wordpress.com/2019/06/15/a-cultural-shift-or-variation-cowboys-and-the-confederate-flag/
https://www.cnn.com/style/article/sonya-clark-truce-flag/index.html

